We are now here in Sign in
with Google in Chapter 4 and
we will start registering the product,
okay?
And I'm pointing you here, because there
is a link here that you can follow,
if not Google,
Sign in with Google setup, okay?
So what's idea?
Every time you're going to use this kind
of federated login, again you wanna let
your users to login with other people's
accounts, with other websites accounts.
Google, Twitter, GitHub,
anyone you typically need to go and
get an account with them as a web
developer if you need to get an account
with Google with Apple case of Apple,
you also need to pay them, okay?
But so in this case, if you go to
sign in with Google set up, okay?
You go to this is the whole documentation,
it's a very large documentation, okay?
But I will just point you to
the most important parts or
the parts that I actually always needed.
For example,
there is a section here that says Setup,
this is part of Google Identity,
Authentication.
You can see here that Authentication and
Authorization is something different,
okay?
It's completely separate.
So we are in Authentication,
and let's go to Setup.
In Setup it says, well, first, what you
need is to get your Google API client ID.
I said, where can I get that?
Well, you will need a Google account.
So here you can sign in
with your Gmail account.
Are you great that Google account for
this?
It's up to you.
So you click here where it
says Google API's console and
you go to the Google Cloud API and
Services Console, okay?
I already have a project for these but
they will show you how
to create a new one.
Just so you can follow along and
create your own project in
case you wanna implement this.
So one idea here, this is the place
where you can create projects that
will use Google APIs,
any kind of Google APIs, Google Maps,
Google Sheets, Google Drive,
any API that comes from Google.
And we will use authentication
services from Google, okay?
So you just need to be logged
in with a Google account,
that's all,
in this case this is my Google account.
So from here what you first need
to do is create a new project.
In fact, the first time you get here if
you have never played with Google APIs,
you don't have a project, okay?
In this case, also you have for
free ten projects,
I have seven remaining in my quota.
All my projects are tests from courses,
at least the one in this account.
So we gave this a project name, so
this is going to be my coffee masters.
It's internal, no one is going to see that
more than you, and you create it, okay?
So 30 seconds, and when it's done,
let's wait for that, yep.
You select the project, so
now this is a project that will
appear here in this drop down, okay?
Coffee master, okay, so once that's done,
we need to create a credential.
But to create the credential,
we first need to create the metadata or
set the metadata for
our OAuth consent screen.
In short words, because from our website,
the user will see a pop-up or
the user will be navigating
to a Google website.
That Google website will have your name,
your icon, maybe the information
about who are you, why are you
requesting logging in with Google?
And also you need to accept all the terms.
So that happens here in
the consent screen, okay?
So here it says okay, which kind of
users will use your app, internal users?
This is only if you have a Google for
apps workspace.
So if your company is every employee
has a Google account under your domain or
external.
In this case we will use external.
So we want Gmail users to
log in in our website.
When you use external, before deploying
these, you will need to get approval.
So someone a person at Google will
actually check that you're a real app
okay, that you're not he will make it,
I mean a simple check, right?
But that you are not fake bank website or
something like that or
you don't look like that please, okay?
But while you are working with this,
you can create test users up to 100.
So then you don't need to wait for
approval to actually see these working.
You can have your own Gmail, or
other people's Gmail account as testers,
so they will be able to login even
if you don't get approval, and
it works with localhost which is great,
makes sense.
So I'm going to say great and
now it's asking me for
information that will
appear in that screen.
That again, is sometimes it's a pop up,
on desktop it's a pop up unless
you have pop ups to disable.
And in that case, it will just
navigate away from your current
page in a new tab, and
that tab will come back to your tab later.
So here the app name, so CoffeeMasters,
support email, okay,
I can take any email from here.
The app logo is not mandatory, so
yeah, you can just keep it for now,
you can upload your logo.
By the way, we have a logo, so
in the project, we can upload a logo.
So it's in images, Icons, IcoPNG,
there is also a logo that I can use.
So if you wanna add more
information about your page, but
this is completely optional, and this is
important, you can add authorized domain.
So for this to work, I need to add
here the domains that are authorized,
so in case,
I will put this in coffeemaster.com, okay?
I will do that but
also I can say localhost, okay?
As an authorized domain, but
if you look here, he says no,
it must be a top private domain.
So actually localhost is not
here where I need to put I
will need to add localhost but not here.
This is for public domains actually.
Developer contact,
you can contact mc.om that doesn't exist.
Okay, this is actually
a public email address,
I'm not going to publish
this with this data anyway.
Scopes, we can completely ignore this for
now.
Scopes is a way that we have in this
Google system to actually make different
users to have different permissions over
my quotas, like I can have my account and
have permission to add the credit card and
the billing system and blah.
So I don't need this, so
I will just to save and continue.
Here I can add my test users, okay, so
here I can add all the test users
that I want to add here, so
any email address okay,
it has to be a Google address, okay?
Will work like I have Frontend Masters
of Gmail, so I can add that one, okay?
And I can add up to 100, okay?
I will add also my primary one and
those are going to be testing users.
Remember with this,
you don't need then to be approved, okay?
And now this is how it's going to
look like, so now that part is ready,
we can create credentials
that's the last part.
So in this case we are going to create
credentials for and OAuth ClientID.
And we are kind of finishing here right
now, so at the top I'm going to create
the credential and
I'm going to create one of those.
What application type?
It's a web application.
So the name it just internal so
this is I know the PWA wherever,
and here we need to add the JavaScript
origins that are available and
here we are going to call for
example our localhost 50, 50, okay?
For example, and in case later
we use localhost without a port.
We can as many as we want, okay?
And for now, I think that's enough, and
now we have these two things,
a client ID and my client secret.
This is like a public private key set,
okay?
So we will need to get
the client ID somewhere.
I will explain where in a minute,
but those are the first steps, okay?
Now we are ready to implement this in
our website, the good news is that so
far it was a lot of work but implementing
this is actually pretty straightforward.
You will see I will just copy and paste
something and it will magically work now.
That's because Google created like
a library to make it work easily but
if you're implementing this over GitHub or
other providers well,
you need to do it manually and
yeah it will require a lot of steps.